.TH "clientdoc" 3 "6 Jul 2006" "Version 1.0" "w3server" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
clientdoc \- Documentation for the client
.SH "Introduction"
.PP
This is the documentation for the client program. It is the command line part of the HTML browser. The second part of the report can be found \fChere\fP. 
.SH "Building client"
.PP
.SS "What you need"
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
Linux or Solaris 
.br
 (Tested with Linux 2.2.13 and libc6) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
pthread library 
.IP "\(bu" 2
gcc or similar compiler (tested with egcs 2.91-66) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
GNU make 
.IP "\(bu" 2
libfl (from the flex package) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
flex if you wish to remake the C-code for the lexical analyzers from the .lex files (usually not) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
GNU autoconf if you want to remake the configure scripts 
.PP
.SS "Building it"
There are few things to do: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
Change to the client directory  
.IP "\(bu" 2
Type \fC./configure\fP to configure the source for your system. If configure reports any error, the source will very likely not build correctly. Please report bugs to the authors. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Type \fCmake\fP at the command prompt. This should build the client executable in the client directory.
.br
 Optional: Call \fCmake clean\fP to delete all object files and auto-save files. \fCmake stat\fP outputs a little code statistics. You need the \fCwc\fP program to use this. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
In the rare case you should want to rebuild the flex analyser, call 
.br
 \fCflex -i img.lex\fP 
.br
 in the source directory and then 
.br
 \fCmake clean; make\fP 
.br
 in the client directory. 
.PP
.SH "Usage"
.PP
The command line format to call \fCclient\fP is: 
.br
 
.SS "For getting a HTML page"
\fCclient get full-path-to-file destination-file port\fP 
.br
 Where 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCfull-path-to-file\fP is the full URI, like 
.br
 \fCio.iupiter.universe/www/hund.html\fP.  
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCdestination-file\fP is the local file where the downloaded file is to be stored. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCport\fP is the port number the server is running on. Usually, this is 80. 
.PP
.SS "For sending mail"
\fCclient mail mailfile\fP 
.br
 Where 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fCmailfile\fP is a filename of a file of the following format: 
.br
 First line: Recipient 
.br
 Second line: Sender 
.br
 Third line: mailer 
.br
 Fourth line: port number on which the mailer accepts connections 
.br
 The following lines contain the mail body, including ALL headers the sender wants to be sent (including sender and recipient headers).  
.PP
.SH "Downloaded Files"
.PP
If you download a HTML file, for example www.animals.org/dog/cat/mouse.html, it is stored in the given destination file AND in the cache subdirectory (which is specified in client/src/w3clientconfig.h). The HTML file is scanned for image tags and the corresponding images are downloaded and stored in the cache directory, in this example that could be 
.br
 cache/www.animals.org/pictures/dog.gif 
.br
 The HTML pages are stored flatly in cache/, e.g. as 
.br
 cache/www.animals.org_index.html 
.br
 The slashes are replaced by underscores. This CAN lead to clashes but that is neglected for this program. In a release version, another mechanism would have to be used. 
