.TH "Server" 3 "6 Jul 2006" "Version 1.0" "w3server" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Server \- 
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBw3Server\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBw3ServerConnection\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBw3HTMLGenerateError\fP (char *header, char *info, int pagecode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBw3ServerConnection\fP * \fBw3ServerAccept\fP (\fBw3Server\fP *server)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerInit\fP (\fBw3Server\fP *server)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerClose\fP (\fBw3Server\fP *server)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerDisconnect\fP (\fBw3ServerConnection\fP *con)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBw3ServerGetToken\fP (char *str, int *idx)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBw3ServerGetPath\fP (char *str)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerSendFile\fP (char *path, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP *con)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerSendError\fP (int errorcode, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP *con)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3ServerServeClient\fP (\fBw3Server\fP *server, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP *con)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBboolean\fP \fBw3StartServer\fP (int port)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBw3ServerMessage\fP (const char *msg)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "char* w3HTMLGenerateError (char * header, char * info, int pagecode)"
.PP
Generates an appropriate error page. The returned pointer points to a newly created string that should be free()d after use. 
.SS "\fBw3ServerConnection\fP* w3ServerAccept (\fBw3Server\fP * server)"
.PP
Accepts a connection for server server. 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerClose (\fBw3Server\fP * server)"
.PP
Closes the server. 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerDisconnect (\fBw3ServerConnection\fP * con)"
.PP
Closes a connection to the server. con is deleted. 
.SS "char* w3ServerGetPath (char * str)"
.PP
Parses a 'GET ...' request and returns a newly allocated char* containing the full path to the requested file. Replace this by a more general request parser. 
.SS "char* w3ServerGetToken (char * str, int * idx)"
.PP
Gets the first token out of str and returns it in a newly allocated char*. idx is an index to the next character in the string str. 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerInit (\fBw3Server\fP * server)"
.PP
Initialization for the server. 
.SS "void w3ServerMessage (const char * msg)"
.PP
Prints message msg to local console. 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerSendError (int errorcode, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP * con)"
.PP
Takes the appropriate action to notify client at connection con of error errorcode. For errorcodes see file \fBw3server.c\fP (for now). 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerSendFile (char * path, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP * con)"
.PP
Sends file pointed to by path to connection con. If the file is in the HTDOC_BIN_BASE directory, it is executed and the standard output stored in a temporary file and sent to the client. The temporary files are stored in HTDOC_BIN_TEMPLATE and should be removed from time to time, e.g. by a cron job (not done automatically). 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3ServerServeClient (\fBw3Server\fP * server, \fBw3ServerConnection\fP * con)"
.PP
After a connection has been established, serve the client. This function does not disconnect. 
.SS "\fBboolean\fP w3StartServer (int port)"
.PP
Starts a server on port port. 
